.\" sipnab.1 -- man page for sipnab
.\" Copyright 2024-2026 Norm Brandinger
.\" License: GPL-3.0-only
.TH SIPNAB 1 "2026-04-09" "sipnab 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sipnab \- SIP & RTP capture, analysis, and security tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sipnab
.RB [ \-d
.IR iface ]
.RB [ \-I
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-N ]
.RB [ \-\-from
.IR pattern ]
.RB [ \-\-to
.IR pattern ]
.RB [ \-\-problems ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.RI [ "bpf filter" ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sipnab
captures and analyzes SIP signaling and RTP media traffic. It unifies the
capabilities of
.BR sngrep (1)
and
.BR sipgrep (1)
into a single binary with added security analysis, RTP quality monitoring,
and machine-readable output.
.PP
Three operating modes are available:
.TP
.B TUI mode
(default) Interactive terminal interface with call list, message flow,
and RTP statistics panels. Requires a terminal.
.TP
.B CLI mode
.RB ( \-N )
Non-interactive text output suitable for scripting and piping.
Supports grep-style matching flags
.RB ( \-i ,
.BR \-v ,
.BR \-w ).
.TP
.B JSON mode
.RB ( "\-N \-\-json" )
One JSON object per SIP message, suitable for ingestion by log
aggregators and analysis pipelines.
.SH OPTIONS
Only the most common flags are listed here. Run
.B sipnab \-\-help
for the complete set.
.TP
.BI \-d " iface"
Capture on network interface
.IR iface .
.TP
.BI \-I " file"
Read packets from a pcap file instead of live capture.
.TP
.BI \-O " file"
Write captured packets to a pcap file.
.TP
.B \-N, \-\-no\-tui
Non-interactive mode. Required for output flags like
.BR \-\-json ,
.BR \-\-report ,
and
.BR \-\-fail2ban .
.TP
.BI \-\-from " pattern"
Filter by SIP From header (regex).
.TP
.BI \-\-to " pattern"
Filter by SIP To header (regex).
.TP
.B \-\-problems
Show calls with detected problems (retransmits, timeouts, error responses).
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output as JSON, one object per line.
.TP
.BI \-\-call\-report " call-id"
Generate a detailed diagnostic report for a specific Call-ID.
.TP
.B \-\-kill\-scanner
Detect and report SIP scanning activity.
.TP
.BI \-l " N"
Maximum number of dialogs to track (default: 100000).
.TP
.BI \-\-quality\-threshold " mos"
MOS quality threshold for RTP alerts (default: 3.0).
.TP
.BI \-f " file"
Path to configuration file.
.TP
.B \-F, \-\-no\-config
Skip loading any configuration file.
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-dump\-config
Print the effective configuration and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SIPNAB_LOG
Log level filter. Accepts
.BR error ,
.BR warn ,
.BR info ,
.BR debug ,
.BR trace .
Uses the
.BR env_logger (3)
syntax, e.g.,
.BR SIPNAB_LOG=debug .
.TP
.B SIPNAB_CONFIG
Path to configuration file. Overridden by
.BR \-f .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/sipnab/sipnab.toml
Per-user configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.sipnabrc
Alternate per-user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/sipnab/sipnab.toml
System-wide configuration file.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Runtime error (capture failure, invalid arguments).
.TP
.B 2
Invalid command-line usage.
.SH LICENSE
GPL-3.0-only. Copyright 2024-2026 Norm Brandinger.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sngrep (1),
.BR tshark (1),
.BR tcpdump (1),
.BR pcap (3)
